Now the syntax is actually really easy to write.
All we do is we declare the contest that we want to dynamically import and wrap it in lazy.
So we'll say that our new home page component is equal to lazy which is a function that gets passed
a function that calls import and then the string to the path that we want.
So for us it will be this home page component.
And now if we remove this our home page is now lazy loaded in meaning that when the application mounts
for the first time it won't get this chunk that represents everything except for the home page.
The moment though that the home page needs to be actually rendered because rack router sees Oh you're
on this path this route path.
I need to render this component the home page will then be pulled from the back end and lazy loaded
into this route.
So this is actually really cool because we're using RAC router we get this root level lazy loading right
out the jump with react lazy and react router.
Now the problem with this however is because this is a synchronous.
This home page has an opportunity where it might not exist.
And it depends on how fast our server is because of our server slow.
You can see that when we request for our home page from our back and server it might take some time
and the user will see nothing.
In fact there might actually be an error.
So what we want to do is we want to leverage react suspense.
Now I'm not going to use it yet.
And what we're going to see what happens is you'll see that there's this error right here because there's
something unknown that are react context is trying to build from the root.
And right now home page is undefined because it's not loaded yet.
That's why we need to wrap it in suspense and what's suspense is is a new component that react has released.
That allows you to wrap any part of your application that might be rendering asynchronous components
so lazy loading components.
It's actually meant to be used with react lazy.
So now if I rack suspense around our road suspense is a component that must take a fallback property
and the fallback property points to any HDMI element or component itself.
So because it can render any component I'm just going to manually write one for now called div.
And what this div inside is just going to say loading.
So now if I save this and we go back to our application we'll see that there was a split second where
you saw the loading text.
Well that's what suspense is doing suspense just renders are fallback DIV and waits until the actual
component is finished being lazy loaded dynamically imported and then it will automatically switch to
the right component for us.
So this is pretty much all react lazy as it's a really simple way for us to get this lazy load.
And now in fact if we were to look at the console.
Let me just make sure that I'm plotting this out if we look at the network we actually will see that
we have broken our chunk into two.
So there's our initial bundle.
And this again is all the libraries.
There is that main chunk we were looking at before and this is a zero chunk zero chunk is the first
chunk of our home page.
So we've see that we've actually broken our application into two chunks instead of the one main chunk
that we were getting before.
So this is really great for us because now we can see that we've properly chunked up and code split
our application and that's really all there is to it.
You just use suspense and you use this react lazy to import the home page.
Now we can actually convert all of our other components over to this lazy style and it literally just
is gonna follow the exact same format so we can do it for all these other ones as well.
Or just do concerts shop page equals lazy
and lazy just takes a dynamic import of the string of our shopping
let's just make sure to do this for all of our other components like our sign in and sign up page and
then our checkout page and now if we also convert this one over as well as our checkout page
we can remove these other imports that we have before now the great thing as as well about suspense
is that suspense can actually encapsulate multiple components and it will wait and render this fallback
until every single component inside has finished lazy loading.
So if I were to do this and move our suspense to wrap all of our new lazy loaded routes right that are
pointing to our lazy loaded components.
Let me also just fix this.
Import string here.
That's an extra period.
But now that we have all of our lazy loaded routes if we go back to our application and I reopen my
Network tab I do a hard refresh we'll see we have our main chunks but also now if we see if we go to
our shop page we'll notice that we're actually also getting in new chunks.
This for chunk let's go to a side and page there is the 6 chunk and if I go to check out there's some
more chunks so reactors is now properly chunking all of those pages that we set up as their own dynamic
imports so we're lazy loaded into these components now.
So this is pretty much going to make our performance a little bit faster because our route is now being
broken up into smaller and smaller chunks that only get downloaded when they need to be I will say that.
One big thing is that because our code is not extremely heavy it's not you're not going to see massive
results.
You're not going to see us go from say like hundreds of killer bytes down to tens of kilobytes because
obligation shot's not that large to begin with but on larger applications you'll definitely feel these
improvements.
And it's so easy to write.
It makes no sense for us not to do so.
So with that we now have a much more applicable chunking system for code scaling our application by
simply just using suspense and react lazy.
Now instead of rendering this loading div let's say I want to render a component that we're familiar
with let's actually render our spinner component what we have to do is move the spinner into its own
component because it's currently sitting inside of our with spin or higher order component.
So what we'll do is we will make a new folder called spinner and inside will be both our spinner adopts
styles dot J.S. as well as our spinner dock component J OS X.
So what I want to do is I want to move all of these spinner styles into my new spinner component here
and then I'm going to import them the way that I did before.
Inside of that component
ups this is from react
and these are from the spinner styles and all our spinner component is going to be is just a presentational
component that shows our spinner overlay with our spinner container inside of it.
So this is pretty much all we were rendering.
Inside of our with Spinner component.
So now instead of rendering this what I want to render is my new spinner component
because we're going to use the spare component inside of our coat
now because this concept is now conflicting.
We see that all we're doing from this function is simply just returning this function.
So instead what we can do is we can just set this up as a default
and our component should still work the same but now what we have access to is that new spinner component.
So let's delete this with Spinner styles because we've moved that code into its own spinner component
and now we can just simply import that into our app code.
Let's just import that right here.
Spinner spinner component and let's just render our new spinner component so now when our app loads
we see that there's there are spinner.
So it looks way closer and way better.
So that's what's really great about suspense and react lazy is that we can literally render any place
holder component that we want.
So with that we have our roots on our main app split into lazy loaded components.
The only other place where I believe we have other routes is our shop page our shop page actually holds
two routes in themselves as well which is the collections or view container and the collection page
container.
So as an exercise I want you to practice what we did using suspense and react lazy and turn these into
lazy loaded components and render them in the roads.
So after you've done that I'll meet you in the next lesson where we'll talk about further optimizing
our components.